okay Gordon we don't know who you are what you do but basically could you just
tell us how you became involved well four
years ago I joined Cepheid three weeks before AG con 11 I worked two movies and
then AG con was the next week and basically I was just a go for it that one and
the following year I was assistant house manager for Cepheid Variable that's the
organization that sponsors AggieCon, and I was an assistant house manager at the
convention that was for the night films. And the following year, I was the full
house manager for both. And this year, our chairman resigned his position in mid
-October, and I took over for him in mid-October. And the majority of the work,
like about 90 percent of it, has been done since then. Okay, you mentioned
people like house manager and assistant house managers? The house managers, we
have two house managers at AggieCon. One of them is the night films house
manager. They're responsible for making sure that the movies that we show in the
auditorium run smoothly and that we have workers there to keep an eye on the
audience. The day house manager is responsible for getting people where they
belong during the daytime at each one of the events we have scheduled. And the
assistants we'll just be obviously assisting them. Right. Well, can you hear us
a little bit more about what Cepheid Variable is? Cepheid Variable is a science
fiction and fantasy committee. It's out of the student programs office here on
campus, and because we are a committee, we do programming through the student
programs office. Some of the other clubs on campus do their own activities and
programming just for their own members, but we program for the entire
university, as well as AggieCon, which is for people who aren't even members of
the university. In other words, AggieCon is really done totally by students at
the university, no other? About 95 percent of the officers this year are
students at the university. They don't have to be. We have a few who are not.
Most of them are like we have one former student, we have one person who is
laying out for a few semesters while he works and that way he can become a Texas
resident and not have to pay out of state tuition. and Becky Matthews who is one
of our guests, we kind of count her as a member of the convention committee
because she was chairman of AggieCon 11, and has helped us with the roast
program this year. OK, could you tell me just a little bit about the history
behind AggieCon? How many years have been in existence and what the original Aqu
vessel is? OK, AggieCon number one, so far as I know, was not originally called
AggieCon. It was just called the Texas A&M Science Fiction Convention, or
something to that effect. They just decided it would be real fun to invite an
author down and have a little miniature convention that lasted two days. I think
they showed three films. I saw a report on AggieCon 4. I think AggieCon 3 was
the first one that was called AggieCon. I saw a report on number four. They took
in a total of $800 and spent $400. And they had two guests and showed six films
total. And that was about all the programming they had. And since then, we have
moved onward and upward to better and better things, to where this year we have
30 guests. We're showing eight major films at night. We have films running all
day long. And we have the panels and the readings. And our budget this year is
something like to take in $15,000 and to spend around $14,000 was what was
budgeted. You speak of budget. Does that come from people who are registered
from any school health or what? So far as the budget is concerned, we have to
write up our own budget because we are an agency of the state of Texas. Cepheid
Variable, being a committee here at the university, is a part of the state. And
it's real funny because we have to turn in our budgets a year in advance before
we actually even know how we did it this year's convention, as in the budget for
next year has already been submitted. Okay. The planning of it, how do you start
planning one, like when one convention ends and you start planning the next year
immediately? How far ahead do you have to look at those? We have already sent
out some letters this year asking if people would like to be guests at AggieCon
15. Some of those went out last month, as a matter of fact. So they really, they
actually overlap. Okay. Do you look for a, when you plan the AggieCon, I guess
the committee does the overall planning. Right. Do you look for a balance
between authors, artists, you know, other kinds of people, or is it just simply
anybody we can get will take? Well, usually what we like to do is there are some
people, some authors here in Texas as well as some artists who are kind of like
traditionalists at AggieCon. and they've been coming for several years. We try
and invite all of them and usually most of them will come down here. So far as
our major guests, we have the guests of honor and we have a special guest. This
year we were going to have co-guests of honor. We were going to have Ann
McCaffrey as well as Harry Harrison, but Ann had to back out because of medical
problems.
Harry Harrison was then left as our only guest of honor, which in the past we've
only had one. We have our special guest, like I said. We have a Toastmaster.
This year it's Dr. Chad Oliver from the University of Texas, and he will be
presenting a program at the banquet this evening. He said he'd give us 15
minutes of wit and humor. And we have our artist, Guest of Honor. In addition,
this year we have Don Punchotts and Real Musgrave, who are actually on the guest
lineup. up we do have some other professional artists that are here they are not
guests but we have uh dale harris and there's two or three others i can't
remember their names at the moment that are here with work on display in the
professional art gallery and
we have um one person serving on panels miss victoria wheeler who is uh very
good at artwork and stuff i would think she'd be termed a fan artist and she
appears on both of our art panels and she is a dealer in the dealer's room. So
far as the rest of it, this year we have really tried to do more stuff for the
artists than we ever have in the past. Usually we have like one panel, the
amateur art contest, the auction, and that's about it. And this year we've
programmed two panels on art. We again have the auction and the contest. We have
more judges for the contest this year than we've had in the past. What have you
found to be the biggest problems in running this or planning it? The fact that
all of the officers are students and we all have our homework here from the
university plus all of the paperwork that is required. And I think the only
reason that was a real problem at this convention was because none of the
paperwork was done when I took over in mid-October. I ended up having to do the
majority of the paperwork, I and my officers, at that point. Do you know how
this convention compares in size other conventions in Texas? Well, we have been
billed as the largest annual science fiction convention, so far as attendance is
concerned. Overall, I do believe that we have a larger attendance, if you count
both the one-day passes as well as the full convention passes, than what other
science fiction conventions have. a lot of that is probably due to the students
here on campus but we do bring in quite a few outside individuals for instance
this year we had 60 non-student convention passes for the full convention that
were sold in advance that means before March 1st at this
particular convention I know that right right now we have a lot last night we
sold, all day yesterday's total, we sold over a thousand one day passes. And I
believe that the full convention passes, if you add up the students and the non
-students, is probably over 500 right now.
Okay, you sort of answered this and obviously I know the answer to it too but
maybe a lot of people who have been listening to the show don't. Could you just
briefly sort of classify the different activities as a fan coming to the
convention would have. Okay, if you come to the convention, there of course are
the movies. I believe they have movies at just about every science fiction
convention. We have the dealer's room, which you can find just about anything
and everything in there, from books to weapons to posters and other kind of
paraphernalia from movies and the world of fantasy. We have the artists and the
authors. They sit on panels. Some of the authors do readings for us. We had a
NASA presentation yesterday. We have had one of those for the past three years,
and we consider that to be pretty regular at this convention. We are having a
slideshow this afternoon on Don Punschutz's artwork, and we try to have an art
slideshow, or at least we've been trying to for the past three years we have the
two movie companies that are here Disney and Columbia Pictures that are
promoting films and I believe that since I've been here at AggieCon 12 I believe
we didn't have any movie promotions but at 11 and 13 and at this one we have had
movie promotions we have trivia quizzes we have the amateur art contest we have
the art auction as well as other stuff that's auctioned off this year we had the
world premier performance of Mr. Harry Harrison's play. That is a first, as far
as I know.
We also have the pro-art gallery where pro-artists can display their work and
the fans can come and look at it. We have an autograph session, a guest
reception, plus you can usually find the guests down in the party room if
they're not doing anything else. And, let's see.
Banquet? There's the banquet itself, which people can go to. Masquerade? Yeah,
the masquerade we have. And there's the Neil Barrett Jr. roast this year. And
last year we had the Chad Oliver roast. And I don't remember if we had a roast
program the year before that, but it looks like we're starting a tradition
because at A&M, if you do anything twice, it's a tradition.
just a little bit more about this Cepheid variable that is a student a student
committee it started off as a club on campus I believe you have to have at least
10 students interested in an activity that can find an advisor and you've got a
club and they set you up with an account here in the student finance office you
take in funds you spend money it's all recorded on paper I think back before we
became an actual committee the difference in a committee being that the
committees get some of their funding from the student service fees here on
campus because those student service fees go for programming for all of the
students on campus and whereas clubs program for their members. The committees
program for the entire campus, for everyone at the university. And some of the
other committees are MSC Aggie Cinema, who programs all films except those
dealing with science fiction and fantasy. There is Town Hall, who they arrange
for the concerts that we have over in G. Raleigh White Coliseum. there's uh opus
who arranges that's um what does opus stand for something in performing arts
society i forget what the o is but you can probably look it up fill in in this
spot um they arrange for concerts and stage some of the stage productions and
stuff like that um there's an outdoor recreation committee there's a regular
recreation committee several other excellent committees that do programming here
on campus and the basic difference is we program for the whole university a club
just programs for itself. In other words really set the variable and the reason
now for its existence is to work all year gearing up for AggieCon, that's the
reason for being. That's one that's our major reason for being, however we also
program all year long we show science fiction fantasy films here on campus and
we are a meeting place for science fiction fantasy fans here on campus. Also on
occasion we do send delegates to other conventions within the state as well as
outside the state. Usually in the summertime though because most of our students
are busy during the fall and spring. Could you recall just briefly a list of the
ones you remember your guests of honor or special guests from the past?
I'm a real bad person to ask about this. Last year, we had Roger Zelazny as our
guest of honor and Fred Saberhagen was our special guest.
Beyond that, I draw a complete blank even though I was here. We do have some old
program books from our past conventions. We try and keep a collection of those.
And anyone who's interested can certainly come up here or they could call us and
we can get the information for them anytime they were interested. I do believe
that AggieCon 7 was the first convention that actually had a program book. All
of the others just kind of had a little schedule that was printed up on, like,
one sheet of paper and put out. Now, what about your part for next year? Are you
going to work on it? Next year I will be here just one semester. I will be here
all summer attending the university. I will be here next fall. I'm supposed to
be graduating at the end of next fall. That'll be one semester late. And I will
be around to help next year's chairman if they have any questions or if next
year's officers have any questions. Also, I have two other responsibilities this
year. One of them is to round up all of the information that we have on this
year's convention and give that to next year's officers so that they can use it
in planning next year's convention. And the second item I have to do is to write
up a financial report for the convention and turn that in. Are you a serious
science fiction fan? Are most of the people in Cepheid variable that way, or
are they just in it for the social aspect? Both, really. The majority of the
people in there are really interested in science fiction. I myself am very
interested in science fiction and fantasy. and it is a pretty nice social
atmosphere also. The majority of the people in the committee are real good
friends and we get along real well.
I would say that no one should criticize the way a science fiction fantasy
convention is run until they've been on my end of the deal. Because until you
have tried to set one of these things up you really don't have any understanding
as to what it takes to do so. All of the paperwork and all of the correspondence
that has to be done, it really is a very big job, and I'm sure that this year I
could not have done it without the help of all my officers. It's worth it, isn't
it? It is worth it, definitely, especially when things go right. You mentioned
the authors and the guests were pretty nice people, aren't they? We have gotten
a lot of compliments from them this year. They're all very nice, and a lot of
them have complimented us, saying that this is a very good convention. David,
Bill, you people? How many people are
there in your group that are working on the call? We have, remember, 16
officers. Eight of those have assistants. And we have probably ten of what we
term gophers, which means general officer for everything ridiculous. Basically,
they are the peons in your organization that go and do everything that the rest
of us don't have time for. And then so far as workers at the convention, just
general committee members that worked, there are probably another 10 to 20 of
those.
What is a Cepheid variable? Oh, you already asked command. Oh, I'm sorry. You
said what it is. Yeah, a Cepheid variable is a pulsating star, which there is
one in the Cephas star system And if you look at it, it will appear to grow
brighter and dimmer and occasionally to change colors. And that's where we took
our name from. Also, our regular committee t-shirts that these Cepheid Variable
people wear is kind of a play on some of the Greek fraternities. We took the
letters Delta Sci-Fi, meaning changing science fiction for us here on campus
that are interested in mathematics.
probably the only other thing I would like to add is that for Aggie Con it tends
to be real difficult from year to year for us sometimes because generally we do
have almost a complete officer turnover from year to year and definitely every
four years when the people who were here three years ago or four years ago
graduate you lose a lot of really valuable people that know what's going on, and
this year, I actually have six of my 16 officers are freshmen this year and have
never even attended a science fiction convention before. Do sometimes the alumni
come back and help a little bit at x Cepheid Variable? Yeah, I said earlier we
have Becky Matthews, who was chairman of Aggiecon 11. Also, Steve Gould, who is
one of our guests, was a member of Cepheid Variable, and I believe he was a
chairman at one of the conventions also.
Yeah, is there anything else you can think of? Not that I know of right now. I
know you're a pretty busy person. Yeah, I should probably get back. They're
going to be opening up the dealer's room if they haven't already. I appreciate
it very much. I appreciate your help getting us the room and everything. Listen,
we'll send you tapes for this. Sure.